# JSC370 Final Project - Google Trends

## About the Project

Every year, sports events are one of the most important activities that people from all around the world are interested in. Major sport events are extremely competitive as this is the time for athletes to demonstrate their skills, determination, and performance in the sports. Moreover, people usually interact with some kinds of sport throughout their childhood life and during school activities. This will develop their interest and hobbies in different kinds of sports. It is also important for a person to do some form of sports to maintain health and wellness such as running, playing basketball and soccer.

Due to the impact in COVID-19, most events that were originally held in 2020 and 2021 were postponed as travel restrictions were in place and athletes' health safety. Some of the several major athletic events postponed in these two years were Tokyo 2020 Summer Olympic and Paralympic Games, UEFA Euro 2020, 2021 Southeast Asian Games, and COPA America 2020. With social distancing measures lifted and travel restrictions lifted, most sports events had resumed in 2022.

In recent years, the popularity surge in esports had become a different kind of sport due to the highly competitive events and increased popularity of video gaming due to advancement in technology, it had become a new kind of sport. In 2018, esports had been recognized as a sports event in the 2018 Indonesia Asian Games. Moreover, the Olympic Committee is going to hold an Olympic Esports Series in 2023 for supporting the development of esports in the past few years and possibly becoming an official sport event in the Olympic Games.

With the increase usage in technologies due to COVID-19 as people are required to stay at home during the lockdown period, people started to gain real time information through search engines, online newspapers and social media platforms. In particular, sport and esport events have become more popular and well known over these years due to technological advancement such as live time information on these activities can be delivered worldwide efficiently.

Google search engine is one of the most widely used search engines for academically, general purpose and any information that people want to know. One of the reasons that Google has become so powerful and highly popular is due to their strong search algorithms which can provide information that users would need to find immediately. Moreover, Google also provides different services such as image search, news information, and live time map information which are extremely useful designs for people to use in daily life.

For this research, we would want to find the different searching trends for sports and esports events that happened in 2022. The dataset will be generated by using the Google Trends R package which can provide a scaled range from 0 to 100 based on a topic's proportion to all searches on all topics (By Google Documentation) that people had searched on Google Search Engine. In each generated trends queries, it also provides the proportion searches in each region, countries and related queries to the given keywords.

## Access to Project

### Website

Project website: <https://wisechua.github.io/JSC370_Final_Project/>

### Pdf File

Project Pdf: <https://github.com/wisechua/JSC370_Final_Project/raw/master/PDF%20Report/JSC370-Final-Project-Report.pdf>
